hi what is technology don't skip ahead I
promise I'm going someone with this so
you could have some kind of definition
from a dictionary that's like technology
is machinery and equipment made using
scientific knowledge something like that
but where are the boundaries of the
category what counts for example pair of
scissors technology I think most people
would say no although it does meet the
definition perhaps scissors used to be
technology but now I think they're too
simple they're too well understood I
think once we've really nailed something
down and figured out all of the details
people stop thinking of it as technology
I think in order to be technology
something has to be complex and
unpredictable maybe even unreliable
YouTube for example is definitely
technology as is the device you're
watching this on ok why does this matter
I guess part of my point is the exact
definitions are really difficult and
this generally isn't much of a problem
because language doesn't really work by
exact definitions maybe it's hard to
specify exactly what we mean when we use
a word like technology but to paraphrase
something from the US Supreme Court you
know it when you see it and that's good
enough for most uses the reason I bring
this up is sometimes people ask me about
my definition of artificial intelligence
and actually think that's pretty similar
you could say that AI is about trying to
get machines to carry out human
cognitive tasks but then arithmetic is a
cognitive task does that make a
calculator artificial intelligence
you know sorting a list is a cognitive
task I don't think most people would
call that AI playing a perfect game of
noughts and crosses used to be
considered AI but I don't think we'd
call it that these days
so to me AI is about making machines do
cognitive tasks that we didn't think
they could do maybe it's because it's
about making machines do human cognitive
tasks and once machines can do something
we no longer think of it as a human
cognitive task this means that the goal
posts are always moving for artificial
intelligence some people have complained
about that but I think it's pretty
reasonable to have that as part of the
definition so that means that the goal
of AI research is to continue to expand
the range of tasks that computers can
handle so they can keep surprising us it
used to be that AI research was all
about figuring out and formalizing
things so that we could write programs
to do them things like arithmetic
sorting lists and playing noughts and
crosses these are all in the class of
problems that you might call things we
can specify well enough to write
programs that do them and for a long
time that was all that we could do that
was the only type of problem we could
tackle but for a lot of problems that
approach is really really hard like
consider how would you write a program
that takes an image of a handwritten
digit and determines what digit it is
you can formalize the process and try to
write a program it's actually kind of a
fun exercise if you want to get to grips
with the old school like computer vision
and image processing techniques and once
you've written that program you can test
it using the M NIST data set which is a
giant collection of correctly labeled
small images of digits what you'll find
is if you do well then this thing will
kind of work but even the best programs
written this way don't work that well
they're not really reliable enough to
actually use someone is always going to
come along with a really blunt pencil
and ruin your programs accuracy and this
is still a pretty easy problem I mean
what if you wanted to do something like
letters as well as numbers now you have
to differentiate between oh and zero and
one and I and a lowercase L it's forget
about it's never going to work and even
that is a relatively simple problem what
if you're trying to do something like
differentiating pictures of cats from
pictures of dogs this whole approach is
just not going to work for that but
there is a fact that we can exploit
which is that it's a lot easier to
evaluate a solution than to generate a
solution for a lot of these problems
I've talked about this before
I couldn't generate a good rocket design
myself but I can tell you that this one
needs work it's easier to write a
program to evaluate an output than to
write one to produce that output so
maybe it's too hard to write a program
that performs the task of identifying
handwritten numbers but it's pretty easy
to write a program that evaluates how
well a given program does at that task
as long as you have a load of correctly
labeled examples you just keep giving it
labeled examples from the data set and
you see how many it gets right in the
same way
maybe you can't write a program that
plays an Atari game well but you can
easily write a program that tells you
how well you're doing you just read off
the score and this is where machine
learning comes in it gives you ways to
take a program for evaluating solutions
and use it to create good solutions all
you need is a data set with a load of
labeled examples or a game with a score
or some other way of programmatically
evaluating the outputs and you can train
a system that carries out the task
there's a sense in which this is a new
programming paradigm instead of writing
the program itself you write the reward
function or the loss function or
whatever and the training process finds
you a set of parameters for your network
that perform well according to that
function if you squint the training
process is sort of like a compiler it's
taking code you've written and turning
it into an executive all that actually
performs the task so in this way machine
learning expands the class of tasks that
machines can start to perform it's no
longer just tasks that you can write
programs to do but tasks that you can
write programs to evaluate but if this
is a form of programming it's a very
difficult one
anyone who has programmed in C or C++
will tell you that the two scariest
words you can see in a specification are
undefined behavior so how many folks
you're a little bit afraid of undefined
behavior in their source code everybody
and machine learning as a programming
paradigm is pretty much entirely
undefined behavior and as a consequence
programs created in this way tend to
have a lot of quite serious bugs and
these are things that I've talked about
before on the channel for example reward
gaming where there's some subtle
difference between the reward function
you wrote and the actual road function
that you kind of meant to write and an
agent will find ways to exploit that
difference to get high reward to find
things it can do which the reward
function you wrote gives a high reward
too but the reward function you meant to
write wouldn't have or the problem of
side-effects where you aren't able to
specify in the reward function
everything that you care about and the
agent will assume that anything not
mentioned in the reward function is of
zero value which can lead to a having
large negative side-effects there are a
bunch more of these specification
problems and in general this way of
creating programs is a safety nightmare
but also it still doesn't allow machines
to do all of the tasks that we might
want them to do a lot of tasks are just
too complex and too poorly defined to
write good evaluation functions for for
example if you have a robot and you want
it to scramble you an egg how do you
write a function which takes input from
the robot senses and returns how well
the robot is doing it scrambling an egg
that's a very difficult problem even
something simple like getting a
simulated robot to do a back flip it's
actually pretty hard to specify what we
about this well normal reinforcement
learning looks like this you have an
agent and an environment the agent takes
actions in the environment and the
environment produces observations and
rewards the rewards are calculated by
the reward function that's where you
program in what you want the agent to do
so some researchers tried this with the
bakflip task they spent a couple of
hours writing a reward function it looks
like this and the result of training the
agent with this reward function looks
like this
I guess it's that's basically a back
flip I've seen better
something like evaluating a back flip is
very hard to specify but it's not
actually hard to do like it's easy to
tell if something is doing a back flip
just by looking at it it's just hard to
write a program that does that so what
if you just directly put yourself in
there if you just play the part of the
reward function every time step you look
at the state and you give the agent a
number for how well you think it's doing
it back flipping people have tried that
kind of approach but it has a bunch of
problems the main one is these systems
generally need to spend huge amounts of
time interacting with the environment in
order to learn even simple things so
you're going to be sitting there saying
no that's not a back flip no that's not
a back flip either that was closer nope
that's worse again and you're gonna do
this for hundreds of hours nobody has
time for that so what can we do well you
may notice that this problem is a little
bit like identifying handwritten digits
isn't it we can't figure out how to
write a program to do it and it's too
time-consuming to do it ourselves so why
not take the approach that people take
with handwritten numbers why not learn
our reward function but it's not quite
as simple as it sounds back flips are
harder than handwritten digits in part
because where are you going to get your
data from four digits we have this data
set M list we have this giant collection
of correctly labelled images we built
that by having humans write lots of
numbers scanning them and then labeling
the images we need humans to do the
thing to provide examples to learn from
we need demonstrations now if you have
good demonstrations of an agent
performing a task you can do things like
imitation learning and inverse
reinforcement learning which are pretty
cool but there are subject for a later
video but with backflips we don't have
that I'm not even sure if I can do a
back flip and that wouldn't help
wait really I don't have to do it no we
don't need a recording of a human
backflipping we need one of this robot
backflipping right there physiology is
different but I don't think I could
puppeteer the simulated robot to
backflip either that would be like
playing co-op on nightmare mode so we
can't demonstrate the task so what do we
do well we go back to the Supreme Court
exactly defining a back flip is hard
doing of actually this hard but I know a
back flip when I see one so we need a
setup that learns a good reward function
without demonstrations just by using
human feedback without requiring too
much of the humans time and that's what
this paper does it's called deep
reinforcement learning from human
preferences and it's actually a
collaboration between open AI and deep
mind the paper documents a system that
works by reward modeling if you give it
an hour of feedback it does this that
looks a lot better than two hours of
reward function writing so how does
reward modeling work well let's go back
to the diagram in reward modeling
instead of the human writing the reward
function or just being the reward
function we instead replace the reward
function with a reward model implemented
as a neural network so the agent
interacts with the environment in the
normal way except the rewards it's
getting are coming from the reward model
the reward model behaves just like a
regular reward function in that it gets
observations from the environment and
gives rewards but the way it decides
those rewards is with a neural network
which is trying to predict what reward a
human would give okay how does the
reward model learn what reward a human
would give well the human provides it
with feedback so the way that works is
the agent is interacting with the
environment you know trying to learn and
then the system will extract two short
clips of the agent flailing about just a
second or two and it presents those two
clips to the human and the human decides
which they liked better which one is
more backflipping and the reward model
then uses that feedback in basically the
standard supervised learning way it
tries to find a reward function such
that in situations where the human
prefers the left clip to the right clip
the reward function gives more reward to
the agent in the left clip than the
right clip and vice-versa
so which clip gets more reward from the
reward model ends up being a good
predictor of which clip the human world
which should mean that the reward model
ends up being very similar to the reward
function the human really wants but the
thing I like about this is the whole
thing is happening asynchronously it's
all going on at the same time the agent
isn't waiting for the human it's
constantly interacting with the
environment getting rewards from the
reward model and trying to learn at many
times faster than real time and the
reward model isn't waiting either it's
continually training on all of the
feedback that it's got so far when it
gets new feedback it just adds that to
the data set and keeps on training this
means the system is actually training
for tens or hundreds of seconds for each
second of human time used so the human
is presented with a pair of clips and
gives feedback which takes just a few
seconds to do and while that's happening
the reward model is updating to better
reflect their previous feedback at God
and the agent is spending several
minutes of subjective time learning and
improving using that slightly improved
reward model so by the time the human is
done giving feedback on those clips and
it's time for the next pair the agent
has had time to improve so the next pair
of Clips will have new hopefully better
behavior for the human to evaluate this
means that it's able to use the humans
time quite efficiently now to further
improve that efficiency the system
doesn't just choose the clips randomly
it tries to select clips where the
reward model is uncertain about what the
reward should be like there's no point
asking for feedback if you're already
pretty sure you know what the answer is
right so this means that the user is
most likely to see clips from unusual
moments when the agent has worked out
something new and the reward model
doesn't know what to make of it that
maximizes the value of the information
provided by the human which improves the
speed the system can learn so what about
the usual reinforcement learning safety
problems like negative side effects and
reward gaming you might think that if
you use a neural network for your reward
signal it would be very vulnerable to
things like reward gaming since the
reward model is just an approximation
and we know that neural networks are
very vulnerable to adversarial examples
and so on and it's true that if you stop
updating the reward model the agent will
quickly learn to exploit it to find
strategies that the reward model scores
highly but the true reward doesn't but
the constant updating of the reward
model actually provides pretty good
protection against this and the way that
the clips are chosen is part of that if
the agent discovers some crazy new
illegitimate strategy to cheat and get
high reward
that's going to involve unusual novel
behavior which will make the reward
model uncertain so the human will
immediately be shown clips of the new
behavior and if it's reward gaming
rather than real progress the human will
give feedback saying no that's not what
I want the reward model will update on
that feedback and become more accurate
and the agent will no longer be able to
use that reward gaming strategy so the
idea is pretty neat and it seems to have
some safety advantages how well does it
actually work is it as effective as just
programming a reward function well for
the back flip it seems like it
definitely is and it's especially
impressive when you note that this is
two hours of time to write this reward
function which needs a lot of expertise
compared to under one hour of rate and
clips which needs basically no expertise
so this is two hours of expert time
versus one hour of novice time now they
also tried it on the standard magico
simulated robotics tasks that have
standard reward functions defined for
them here it tends to do not quite as
well as regular reinforcement learning
that's just directly given the reward
function but it tends to do almost as
well and sometimes it even does better
which is kind of surprising they also
tried it on Atari games now for those it
needed more feedback because the task is
more complex but again it tended to do
almost as well as just providing the
correct reward function for several of
the games also there's kind of a fun
implementation detail here they had to
modify the games to not show the score
otherwise the agent might learn to just
read the score off the screen and use
that they wanted to rely on the feedback
so it seems like reward modeling is not
much less effective than just providing
a reward function but the headline to me
is that they were able to train these
agents to do things for which they had
no reward function at all like the back
flip of course they also got the cheetah
robot to stand on one leg which is a
task I don't think they ever tried to
write a reward function floor and in
enduro which is an Atari game a racing
game they managed to train the agent
using reward modeling to stay level with
other cars even though the games score
rewards you for going fast and
overtaking them and what all this means
is that this type of method is again
expanding the range of tasks machines
can tackle it's not just tasks we can
write programs to do or tasks we can
write programs to evaluate or even tasks
we're able to do ourselves all that's
required is that it's easy to have
great outputs that you know good results
when you see them and that's a lot of
tasks but it's not everything consider
for example a task like writing a novel
sure you can read two novels and say
which one you liked more but this system
needed 900 comparisons to learn what a
back flip is even if we assume that
writing a novel is no more complicated
than that does that mean comparing 900
pairs of AI generated novels and a lot
of tasks are like this what if we want
our machine to run a company or design
something complex like a cities
transportation system or a computer chip
we can't write a program that does it we
can't write a program that evaluates it
we can't reliably do it ourselves enough
to make a good data set we can't even
evaluate it ourselves without taking way
too much time and resources so we're
screwed
right not necessarily there are some
approaches that might work for these
kinds of problems and we'll talk about
them in a later video
[Music]
I recently realized that my best
explanations and ideas tend to come from
actual conversations with people so I've
been trying a thing where for each video
I first have a couple of video calls
with patreon supporters where I try sort
of running through the idea and seeing
what questions people have and what's
not clear and so on so I want to say a
big thank you to the patrons who helped
with this video you know you are I'm
especially thanking Jake Eric and of
course thank you to all of my patrons
who make this whole thing possible with
their support which reminds me this
video is sponsored by nobody know I
actually turned down a sponsorship offer
for this video and I'll admit I was
tempted because it's a company whose
product I've used for like 10 years and
the offer was thousands of pounds but
they wanted me to do this whole
60-second long spiel and I just thought
no I don't want to waste people's time
with that and I don't have to because
I've got patreon so thank you again to
all of you if you like learning about AI
safety more than you like learning about
mattresses and VPNs you might want to
consider joining those link in the
description thanks again for your
support and thank you all for watching
hi there my knees